---
layout: post
title: ST 558- Project 2: Predicting the Number of Times a News Article Would be Shared on Social Media
---



## Objectives of the Project

The data for project 2 was from a machine learning repository.  The data can be found at [this weeksite]( https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Online+News+Popularity#). The data set contains 58 features of a set of articles published by Mashable in a two-year period. 
The goals of project 2 were:

1.	 To create 2 models to predict the number of times a news article would be shared in social networks.   This is a measure of the article’s popularity.
2.	Automate R markdown reports for each day of the week 

## Modeling

We were asked to create 2 different predictive models- a non-ensemble tree based model and a boosted tree model.   I feel like if I had more time, I may have been able to come up with better models. I don’t feel like my models are all that great. I probably should have spent more time looking at the variables and deciding which ones to include. The variables I ultimately decided on were kind of picked at random. If I were to do this project over again, I would probably try to find variables that are more correlated with the response. I tried several but none of them seems to be highly correlated. 

I thought about doing classification models but ultimately decided to go with regressions models. I like classification models because I think it is a lot easier to interpret the % accuracy rather than RMSE. 

## Automation
As suggested, I did the assignment first with just Monday and everything seemed to go great, but then came the automation part. I would get error after error. Some errors were easy to fix and some required an internet search to find out what I did wrong. Eventually, I got it to work. While this process was a bit frustrating, I feel like I did learn something from it. 

## Reflection
The hardest part of this project for me was definitely automating the reports. I created my file for Monday and then tried to automate that. The tree-based model with LOOCV takes so long to run. It would start and then have an error, but by that time I had left my computer to go do something else. I’d come back and see that there was an error. I decided to create a simple dummy file just to play with the automating the reports until I was sure I got it right.  This helped me out a lot… it took a lot less time to see if I messed something up. 

My project can be accessed [here]( https://colleenmoore.github.io/ST558_Project2/) 
